---
layout: post
title: "Random Reading digest"
date: 2012-01-24
comments: false
categories:
- Digest
tags:
- Blahblah
---

<a href="http://reprog.wordpress.com/2012/01/21/my-plan-for-2012-do-things-that-children-do/">My plan for 2012: do things that children do</a>

- Learn things
- Play sports
- Sing and play instruments
- Draw and paint
- Write stories

... I have to say it is a better "next year resolution" than <a href="http://creasywuqiong.blogspot.com/2012/01/summary-of-2011-and-resolution-of-2012.html">what I have made</a>. The explanation is clear and straightforward. So, I should add them to my resolutions!

<a href="http://www.jamesaltucher.com/2011/07/life-tastes-best-when-you-eat-what-you-kill/">Life Tastes Best When You Eat What You Kill</a>

- Don’t depend on one boss, buyer for your company, product, service you offer, etc. Diversify everything you can.
- Become an expert.
- Connect people.
- Give ideas for free.
- Always work on your exit. No matter where you are: a job, a startup, your startup, writing a column, working at Mcdonalds, always diversify your possible exits and begin immediately working on them. You don’t have to exit tomorrow, but never forget that you can get that email tomorrow that says you have to clean out your desk by Saturday.
- Never say a bad word about anyone.
- Don’t care what people think.
- Create your luck.
- Take responsibility for all failures.
- Honesty. If you don’t ask for what you want, chances are you won’t get it. If you don’t say what you believe, you’ll never stand out from the 99% of people out there who hide the truth about themselves and their desires. If you don’t stand up and say or show how special you are, nobody will ever think you are special. Nobody is out there advocating for you. Honesty about what you feel, believe, know, think, want, will make you a multi-dimensional being in a flatland world.
- Patience.

... The general guidelines might be too vague to follow or helpful to summarize some vague thoughts in mind. This one is much closer to the latter category.
